.TH zettsum 1 "February 2018" "version 1.0"

.SH NAME
zettsum - generate checksums for lines

.SH SYNOPSIS
zettsum [OPTIONS]... [STRINGS]...

<pipeable> | zettsum [OPTIONS]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates checksums for each STRING individually.

If no STRINGS are provided, streams standard input.

.B -a {algorithm}, --algorithm {algorithm}
    Set hashing algorithm to {algorithm}.
    Defaults to sha256.
    For available options, see -H

.B -H, --hashes
    List all hashing algorithms and exit.

.B -d {format}, --digest {format}
    Set digest method to {format}.
    Defaults to "hex".
    Available options are: "hex", "latin1", and "base64".

.B -e {format}, --encoding {format}
    Sets encoding to {format}.
    Defaults to "utf8".
    Available options are: "utf8", "ascii", and "latin1".

.B -i, --input
    Prints input with each hash, seperated by tab.
    Example:
       900150983cd24fb0d6963f7d28e17f7	abc

.B -h, --help
    Display a help file and exit.

.B -v, --version
    Display version information and exit.

BUGS
Any issues can be filed at:
  
  https://github.com/zeddidragon/zettsum/issues

1.
  The following command will never provide output:

    echo -n test | zettsum

  This is because zettsum waits for a new line before
  writing output, and it is not considered a bug.

2.
  I have no idea what the expected behaviour of the
.I -e
  option is or how to test it. If this is important to you,
  and you know how to implement it correctly, please file an issue
  or a pull request.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Tony A. Saele and Oystein O. Olsen
